Grant Application - Reference Blockchain System (#942)
w3f/Grants-Program: Grant Application - Reference blockchain system.md

# W3F Grant Proposal

> This document will be part of the terms and conditions of your agreement and therefore needs to contain all the required information about the project. Don't remove any of the mandatory parts presented in bold letters or as headlines! Lines starting with a `>` (such as this one) can be removed.
>
> See the [Grants Program Process](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/#pencil-process) on how to submit a proposal.

- **Project Name:** Towards fully decentralized and incentive Web3 by designing a non-fungible reference blockchain system
- **Team Name:** Jieliang Yin

> - **Payment Address:** Will be given after the application has been approved

Author: All work for us like BTC or ETH

In Web2 users are not just consumers, but also become service providers to create online content and provide online service on platforms. Those platforms are owned and controlled privately, which give their owners incentives to manage and improve online services to the public better continuously. In this way Web2 online services have higher quality than Web1, but such centralization also causes problems as service managers maximize self-interests at the expense of others in public.

Therefore Web3 aims at solving the problem of non-incentive in Web1, and centralization in Web2 to make online services both decentralized and incentive. In Web3, online public services should be maintained and managed not by any centralized entity in private, but by users in public collectively. Users will not only consume and provide online services, but also manage them together to protect their own digital rights, freedom and assets. 

> Some Web3 projects try to break the monopoly among different platforms, and give some rights of self-governance to the community via DAO, but still far from the goal above. A central team like the founding company still has more privileges and plays a more vital role than others in determining the development and management of its project, and they predefine and limit the self-governance of the DAO, making it not so useful. To participate in DAO, users need to buy and stake governance tokens, which sets a high threshold and causes inequality. The distribution of governance tokens is often uneven, making DAO not so decentralized and representative. The users who don’t have the majority of votes have to compromise. 

Reviewer: That is a very narrow view of what DAOs today are. Whether tokens are required for participation and how power is distributed among its members is a design decision, not a technical limitation. There are DAO platforms in existence that let you design and deploy DAOs with whatever mechanics you desire.

Author: Yes we are exploring a new mechanism of DAO besides staking and voting. DAO could be designed in any way without technical limitation, so we are designing a new way and we think it could be better than any other existing ways.

In order to really achieve fully decentralized and incentive Web3, we design a reference system on blockchain to enable permissionless and unlimited public collaboration for managing and improving online services via the reference relationship that new work refers to the old work it is based on, and sharing its earnings with the referred old work. 

With our reference system, we expect that owners are willing to open and share their works of online services, so they could be developed and managed by different people to meet different needs, and users could freely choose and switch among different new works without limitations. According to the reference relationship, each contribution to the online services would be traced and rewarded to give contributors incentive while maintaining the opening and decentralization of Web3. 

![img](https://github.com/hoho-yin/Grants-Program/blob/hoho-yin-patch-1/overview.png)

### Ecosystem Fit

> ![img](https://github.com/hoho-yin/Grants-Program/blob/hoho-yin-patch-1/impact.png)

Author: In the Use Case part we take Uniswap as example. Uniswap only allows one version at one time, like v1 in 2018, v2 in 2020,   and v3 in 2021, and they are all made by the official. In our reference system, instead we allow different versions at one time, like v1.1, v1.2, v1.3... in 2018, v2.1, v2.1.1, v2.1.1.1 in 2020... and they are made by different people not only the official team. Although made by different people, different versions can access and interoperate with the official version v1, v2, or v3, like soft fork not hard fork.

In this way, users can get the best online services to fully protect their individual digital rights, freedom and properties. As online services are fully decentralized made by the public and for the public, they can be truly reliable and regulated without having privileges or monopoly to suppress users and service providers for self-interests, while still fully incentivizing to maintain and improve their online services continuously. 

![img](https://github.com/hoho-yin/Grants-Program/blob/hoho-yin-patch-1/users.png)

**Use case**

For example, currently one DeFi application couldn’t have multiple versions made by different people. If others change a DeFi protocol to make a new version of it, it couldn’t get the internal network and resources of the original version. For instance, Sushiswap improved Uniswap, but Uniswap couldn’t open and share its liquidity pool with Sushiswap. Sushiswap has to build a new protocol completely independent from Uniswap even though it’s based on Uniswap. In order to have its own liquidity, Sushiswap launched vampire attacks to scramble for Uniswap’s liquidity. 

> With our reference system, Uniswap can have unlimited new versions just like branches or forks made by anyone including Sushiswap. Uniswap opens and shares its internal users and network and allows anyone to make any changes on itself, so Sushiswap can access the liquidity pools of Uniswap and build their protocol based on them directly with no need to build their own from scratch. In return, the earnings of the Sushiswap will be distributed with Uniswap as the incentive for its opening and sharing. Users don’t have to choose between Uniswap and Sushiswap, but can use both at the same time without separation.

Author: We think Web3 services should be fully decentralized. The development of each service should be out of owner's control. Owner should not control and determine the future of the service like roadmap following his intention, but should allow different people can improve and change it freely as long as markets and users need, even beyond owner's scope. 

For example although Uniswap doesn't intend to have governance token in the beginning, it should still allow others like Sushiswap to add platform token in the new version developed by Sushiswap. Users can freely choose old or new version. Old and new version can share the same liquidity pool, so Sushiswap can directly build their project based on Uniswap rather than having to build a new project from scratch and launching vampire attack to scramble the liquidity of Uniswap. Such collaboration rather than vicious competition would be beneficial to both Uniswap and Sushiswap.

| --: | ----- | --------- | -------- |
| Version | _versionId | compulsory | automatic |
| Work | _tokenId | compulsory | automatic |
| Creator  | _address | invariant | creator |
| Reference | _tokenId | multiple | creator |
| Content | name, symbol, tokenURI | customized | creator |
| Transaction | Transaction_id | multiple | automatic |  

Each token will represent a work with unique token id and version id by recording its content and creator especially the reference relationship with other works. The earnings of the work like being purchased and invested will be recorded within the token, and distributed with all its referred tokens via transactions. 

**ink! smart contract standard:**

| Function | Input | Logic | Output |
| -------: | ----- | ----- | ------ |
| Mint | address,content,reference | Represent the new work and record the referring works of the new work | token_id |
| Referred | address, token_id | Set the revenue distribution scheme when being referred by following works |
| Append | address,token_id,reference,content  | Can’t modify original items |  |
| Transfer | address,token_id | Change the ownership of one’s token | address, transaction |

> When creating a new work, a corresponding token will be minted automatically with unique token id to represent the new work and store all its referring works. The token also defines when it's referred by the following new tokens, how the earnings of the new work should be distributed with it.

Author: We want something to represent the reference relationship between old work and the new work based on the old work. No existing token supports such reference function, not to mention distributing the revenue of the new work with its referred old work. So the new token we design allow new work to refer to the old work, build new work based on the referred old work, and distribute revenue with the old work.

## Development Roadmap :nut_and_bolt:

**Expected deliverables:**

1. A reference token standard that records and reflects the nominal reference relationship between new work and its referred old work. When creating a new work, the corresponding new token will also be generated and attached where the reference relationship between the new work and its referred work will be added and stored. 

2. A reference system that makes old work truly composable and interoperable with the new work. By referring to the old work, new work could be created by adding anything new or changing anywhere on the referred work while still connecting and sharing other parts of the referred work seamlessly. 

3. A revenue allocation and distribution system that confirms the revenue distribution scheme agreed by different works with the reference relationship. It will track the earnings of the new work, and distribute them with the old work which the new work refers to according to their distribution scheme.

> All programs will be developed in !ink on Pallets.

Reviewer: Smart contracts don't require any pallets, other than the `contracts` pallet. I suppose you mean "for parachains with `contracts` pallet?

**Milestones:**

### Overview

- **Total Estimated Duration:** 6 months
- **Full-Time Equivalent (FTE):**  2 ~ 4 people depending on actual workload
- **Total Costs:** $20,000

### Milestone 1 — Reference token standard

- **Estimated duration:** 1 month
- **FTE:**  2 developers and 1 technical researcher
- **Costs:** 3,000 USD

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| -----: | ----------- | ------------- |
| 0a. | License | We will design a new reference license in our project, which records and reflects the reference relationship between the referred old works and the new works that are based on the old works. |

> | 0b. | Documentation | We will provide both inline documentation of the code and a basic tutorial that explains how a user can spin up one of our Substrate nodes and send test transactions, which will show how the new functionality works. |

Reviewer: I strongly suggest using substrate-contracts-node here.

```suggestion
| 0b. | Documentation | We will provide both inline documentation of the code and a basic tutorial that explains how a user can spin up a [Substrate contracts node](https://github.com/paritytech/substrate-contracts-node), deploy and intialize the contracts and send test transactions, which will show how the new functionality works. |
```

| 0c. | Testing Guide | Core functions will be fully covered by unit tests to ensure functionality and robustness. In the guide, we will describe how to run these tests. |
| 0d. | Docker | We will provide a Dockerfile that can be used to test all the functionality delivered with this milestone. |
| 0e. | Article | We will publish an article that explains the design and usage of our work in details. |
|  1. | Specification | We will specify the details of our token standard design that how users can create their own work, refer to others' work, and get the earnings of their work via the reference token in the reference system. |

> |  2. | Setup | We provide a repository that forms the basis of our deliverables. |

Reviewer 2: @semuelle points out that “We provide a repository that forms the basis of our deliverables.” isn’t necessary.

> |  3. | Core Types | We provide the core data and coding types in details. |

Reviewer: Can you be more specific here? Which types? Is this a full implementation or just a specification?

Author: Yes we will fully implement it in our demo. Core types mean the data types in the objects of our token standard. Will revise it more clearly.

|  1. | Specification | We will specify the formalization and analysis of the economic model and incentive scheme design that collects the earnings of the new work and distributes them with all its referred works based on their reference relationships recorded on our reference system, which can motivate old works to open and share their works including internal network resources with others who can build their new work based on them. |

### Milestone 5 — Build DAO Community

- **Estimated duration:** 1 month
- **FTE:**  1 economic researcher, and 2 management researchers
- **Costs:** 3,000 USD

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| -----: | ----------- | ------------- |
| 0a. | License | We will design a new reference license in our project, which records and reflects the reference relationship between the referred old works and the new works that are based on the old works. |
| 0b. | Documentation | We will provide both inline documentation of the code and a basic tutorial that explains how a user can spin up one of our Substrate nodes and send test transactions, which will show how the new functionality works. |

> | 0c. | Testing Guide | Core functions will be fully covered by unit tests to ensure functionality and robustness. In the guide, we will describe how to run these tests. |

Author: DAO community is not a program, but something on Discord or Telegram like other community of Web3 projects. We will define the governance rules and operation plan of our community as deliverables in this milestone. We will also determine where it would be, whether building a website for that or using existing tools. Community is very important for our project, and can undertake several roles like filtering different versions of one work, and defending the copyright of one work.

| 0a. | License | We will design a new reference license in our project, which records and reflects the reference relationship between the referred old works and the new works that are based on the old works. |
| 0b. | Documentation | We will provide both inline documentation of the code and a basic tutorial that explains how a user can spin up one of our Substrate nodes and send test transactions, which will show how the new functionality works. |
| 0c. | Testing Guide | Core functions will be fully covered by unit tests to ensure functionality and robustness. In the guide, we will describe how to run these tests. |
| 0d. | Docker | We will provide a Dockerfile that can be used to test all the functionality delivered with this milestone. |
| 0e. | Article | We will publish an article that explains the design and usage of our work in details. |
|  1. | Specification | We will combine all our previous works above together to build the integrated system. We will specify the configurations and implementations of the whole system, and encourage everyone within the community to use, test and improve. |
|  2. | Setup | We provide a repository that forms the basis of our deliverables. |

> |  3. | Core Types | We provide the core data and coding types in details. |

Reviewer: see above

> |  4. | User Testing | We will make the testing plan and invite users for testing and evaluation. After that we will produce testing report, and improve our system continually based on that. |

Reviewer: Can you be more specific here? What will you be measuring? Who will be your cohort?

Author: We will mainly measure the degree and utility of decentralization in Web3 after implementing our project. How decentralized Web3 could be after using our system, and how online services could be better on such more decentralized Web3. We will also test the functionalities, security, and performance of the demo we built for our system. The cohort will be the Web3 users.
